I'm continuing to take a mental break from practicing - violin has been and always will be an integral part of my life, and I have to be very wary about burnout and "pushing through", especially during Covid. There's no point in forcing it when there are no performances on the horizon. Perhaps, if I have the energy, I will try and do a half hour or so of technique today, to keep the rust from forming. As of right now though, I really want to spend a lot of time studying React and continuing with the tutorial.


1) Declaring "Prop Types":

It's important to check that the type of data that the prop is receiving is what you expect it to be. You can define the propTypes property with this format:

Component.propTypes = {prop: PropTypes.type.isRequired}

A practical example is this:

Items.propTypes = { quantity: PropTypes.number.isRequired }

Here, my item component should expect a prop that is a number (this can be bool, string, array, etc).

2) Declaring props in ES6 class components:

Declaring props in ES6 class components uses slightly different syntax. Here, we need the "this" keyword to refer back to the class itself (ex. This.props.something).


3) Declaring States

A React component can have 'state', which is any information that can be changed over time in the application or website. State is declared as an object in the constructor function of the class component with the keyword 'this':

Constructor(props) {
	super(props)
	this.state = {};
}

*** IMPORTANT NOTE: A component's state is encapsulated within that component. No other components are aware of it (this may take me a while to see the implications of this...) ****

There are two ways you can access state:

A) In the render method itself ---> you can create a variable to store the state data you want to access and write it in plain JS.

B) In the return statement ---> if you do it this way, it has to be written in curly braces as it is part of the JSX.

4) You can add methods to your components BUT in order for them to access all the props in the component, you have to bind 'this' to the method. The first way you can do this is in the constructor function this way:

this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);

I definitely need to do a little review on the 'this' keyword, but I have a decent understanding of how this works.

Whew, this is starting to get a little overwhelming. I realized that there are a few gaps in my knowledge that are making this more difficult for me to comprehend. I'm not really comfortable with event handlers in general, how they work, or even how API's or other javaScript libraries REALLY work, like jQuery. I took a pause on this and did some more reading on the Mozilla Developer page about all of the above and it was extremely beneficial. I will spend more time on here following their examples so I can help stitch all these topics together in my mind.  















